Learning How to Kickflip

When it comes to flip tricks, kickflips are typically the first one you will check off your list. You will need to master the basics of learning how to ollie before kickflips since it builds off that same ollie motion. Kickflips are the gateway to more advanced tricks like varial flips and 360 flips and getting them dialed will give you more confidence on your skateboard.

These are the five main steps in learning how to kickflip on your skateboard:

1. Foot Placement

Keep the weight on the balls of your feet when setting up for a kickflip. Your back foot should be placed with the ball of your foot centered on the tail while your front foot is at a slight angle just behind the back bolts. However, you will find what footing works best for you in the process. Another key part of your setup is to keep your shoulders parallel with your board. This keeps your body centered on your board and makes landing straight much easier.

2. Jump & Pop

Similar to the ollie, you need to spring off your toes. Be sure to crouch down and bend your knees to get a clean jump. Your jump initiates the trick while the pop happens just after. The higher you can jump and suck up your feet, the higher the board can pop up and flip underneath you. Push straight down on your tail to start the pop as you jump. If you pop at an angle your board will turn as it flips making it harder to control.

3. Flick

As soon as your tail hits the ground, slide your front forward at an angle. Turn your ankle so the side of your shoe does the flicking and aim for the side of your nose in the pocket. Extend your flick past the board and keep it lifted allowing the board to rotate underneath you.

4. Catch

When you are first learning kickflips on flat ground you won’t need to worry about the catch as much but when you start doing them down stairs or off ramps the catch becomes more crucial because it stops the board from over-rotating. Extend your feet gently as the board finishes flipping and make contact between the soles of your shoes and the board.

5. Land

Bend your knees upon landing to absorb the impact and maintain balance.

If you're new to skateboarding, practicing on grass or carpet can help you build up confidence without having to worry about slipping out on concrete. You won’t get as crisp of a snap but it’s a good way to build confidence with the motion so you can start committing to getting both feet back on your board. If you get frustrated during the learning process just remember skateboarding should be all about having fun so take a break and come back to it with a refreshed mindset.

We hope you found this tutorial useful. If you have any questions on how to get started skateboarding or how to improve your kickflip, let us know and we will do our best to help you out.

Related Posts